Query: What is known about transmission, incubation, and environmental stability?
Answer:  The frequency lt    of secondary transmission relative to diseaseage can be backcalculated by extracting the serial interval distribution st from a known transmission network and by using the incubation period distribution f   which is assumed known. This concept is illustrated in Fig. 2A . If we have information on the length t i of the serial interval for n cases the likelihood function is given by
Title:  Given the high environmental stability of the virus and the potential fomite transmission together with the long virus persistence in infected animals spontaneous disappearance from a mouse population e.g. by cessation of breeding is very unlikely. Eradication of infection is possible by elimination of infected animals and subsequent replacement with uninfected mice and the agent can be eliminated from breeding populations only by embryo transfer or by hysterectomy.
Paragraph:  Viruses do not replicate outside living cell but infectious virus may persist on contaminated environmental surfaces and the duration of persistence of viable virus is affected markedly by temperature and humidity. Contaminated surfaces are known to be significant vectors in the transmission of infections in the hospital setting as well as the community. The role of fomites in the transmission of RSV has been clearly demonstrated 20 . Survival of viruses on a variety of fomites has been studied for influenza viruses paramyxoviruses poxviruses and retroviruses 21 . The human coronavirus associated with the common cold was reported to remain viable only for 3 hours on environmental surfaces after drying although it remains viable for many days in liquid suspension 13 . Parainfluenza and RSV viruses were viable after drying on surfaces for 2 and 6 hours respectively 20 22 . In aerosolised form human coronavirus 229E is generally less stable in high humidity 12 . The environmental stability of SCoV was previously unknown and this information is clearly important for understanding the mechanisms of transmission of this virus in a hospital and community setting.
---------------Next Query---------------------
Query: What do we know about COVID-19 risk factors?
Answer:  Our study is the first comprehensive attempt to systematically assess the effect of a multitude of possible risk factors on severe ALRI in children aged less than five years. We identified in total 19 risk factors which had been reported to be associated with severe ALRI in the published literature. We observed a consistent significant association between 7 risk factors lowbirthweight undernutrition indoor air pollution incomplete immunization at one year HIV breastfeeding and crowding and severe ALRI definite risk factors. We also observed that 7 risk factors parental smoking lack of maternal education vitamin D deficiency male sex preterm births anemia and zinc deficiency had an inconsistent association with severe ALRI that was not significant likely risk factors. We further observed that 5 risk factors daycare birth interval birth order previous history of ALRI and vitamin A deficiency were sporadically reported to be associated with severe ALRI possible risk factors.
Title:  In the past week COVID19 has started behaving a lot like the onceinacentury pathogen that international experts have been worried about 10 . Because the symptoms of COVID 19 are not unique but similar to those of other diseases testing is the only way to know for sure if someone is infected with the SARSCoV2 11 .
Paragraph:  Italy for reasons not yet clear with 80539 cases and 9134 deaths as per the 27th of March 2020 1 is today the nation most affected after China 81416 cases. The pandemic has mainly located in Northern Italy Figure 1  partially saving for the moment the South. Italy was not prepared for Covid 19 today a planetary health emergency with 549474 cases and 24883 deaths worldwide 2. The Italian crisis provoked by Covid 19 is the most serious event in the Italian History after the Second World War is a national human health and economic tragedy. Covid 19 mortality in Italy has been 9 higher than in China. The reasons for this high mortality are still unclear. It is realistic to believe that in Italy the infected people are much more tests are carried out mainly in clearly symptomatic patients and therefore the real mortality from Covid 19 may be lower. Furthermore the oldest population in Italy may have increased mortality. In fact In Italy the median age of dead patients was around 80 years What has happened in Italy Social containment early and rapid throughout the nation is the most effective measure for the contrast and spread of Covid19 which perhaps was delayed in Italy. Italy was the first nation in Europe affected by Covid 19 and was therefore caught unprepared. The rapid spread of Covid 19 and the dangerousness of the disease very different from the normal seasonal influenza was perhaps initially underestimated.
---------------Next Query---------------------
Query: What do we know about virus genetics, origin, and evolution?
Answer:  We know much about virus replication and disease. However our understanding of the specifi c mechanisms of persistence is generally poor. Persistence is a generally silent and inscrutable state it does not lend itself to in vitro or cell culture experimental models. We are left with but a few examples from which to attempt to extrapolate the possible existence of general relationships. The study of virus evolution thus struggles to incorporate concepts of persistence.
Title:  It is no accident that both Burnet and Jerne who have con tributed so significantly to immunological theory and prac tice spent many years thinking in population terms about viral genetics and the origin and selection of mutant virus es . Jerne applied the population biological approach to populations of natural antibody molecules Burnet to populations of somatic immunocompetent cells.
Paragraph:  COVID19 is caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 SARSCoV2 a positivesense singlestranded RNA virus that belongs to the Betacoronavirus genus within the Coronaviridae family 1 2 . Yet the origin and evolution of SARSCoV2 remains largely unclear. Several recent studies identified SARSCoV2 related viruses in Malayan pangolins Manis javanica providing new insights into the host distribution and evolution of SARSCoV2 related viruses 3 4 5 6 7 .
---------------Next Query---------------------
Query: What do we know about vaccines and therapeutics?
Answer:  The outbreak of HCoVEMC infection in Saudi Arabia has raised great concerns about the potential pandemic of the SARSlike disease and strategies for combating this newly emerged infectious disease should be prepared 2 . It is believed that the existing SARS research may provide a useful template for developing vaccines and therapeutics against HCoVEMC infection 3  but so far no effective antiSARS vaccines and therapeutics have been well developed.
Title:  The Filoviridae family consists of the Ebolavirus Marburgvirus and Cuevavirus genera. Historically Ebola virus EBOV Zaire ebolavirus species has been the most common and deadly of the filoviruses. Therefore the research community has largely focused on the development of EBOV animal models tools vaccines and therapeutics and has been successful in producing several compounds that have reached the late stages of clinical trials 1 2 . In light of this success it is now possible to extend further research towards the discovery of panfilovirus vaccines and therapeutics. However animal models that are susceptible to all ebolaviruses species will need to be established first in order to directly evaluate whether panfilovirus vaccines and therapeutics provide crossprotection.
Paragraph:  There are a number of challenges that must be overcome to ensure adequate preparedness for future Ebola outbreaks including completing the remaining advanced development activities necessary for regulatory approval and subsequent stockpiling of these medical countermeasures for use during a public health emergency. BARDA remains committed to making available safe and effective FDAapproved vaccines and therapeutics for Ebola public health emergencies. Despite the advancement of the aforementioned vaccines and therapeutics against Ebola gaps remain in our overall preparedness posture against other filoviruses. As such BARDA will be pursuing the development of vaccines and therapeutics against Sudan ebolavirus and Marburg virus to address this gap. While we acknowledge that much work remains to prepare for future filovirus outbreaks the recently announced BARDA awards for vaccines and therapeutics against Ebola represent an important milestone in our preparedness and ongoing commitment to counter this health security threat.
---------------Next Query---------------------
Query: What do we know about non-pharmaceutical interventions?
Answer:  In conclusion there remains a serious deficit in the evidence base of the efficacy of nonpharmaceutical interventions. The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention have awarded grants to study non pharmaceutical interventions in community settings 40  including this study. Other funded study designs include symptombased recruitment as in our study and longitudinal studies of initially uninfected cohorts in children and adults and in various settings including households schools and student halls of residences. We eagerly anticipate that conclusive evidence will become available as these studies proceed in the coming months finally allowing empiricallydriven pandemic planning.
Title:  Pharmaceutical interventions alone cannot be relied upon to stem the tide of pandemic outbreaks. While influenza transmission can be halted with the use of antiviral medications mutations in the virus necessitate that a new vaccine be produced for each new flu strain. Vaccination production can take up to six months to complete with the burdens of delays likely shortages and virus mismatch reducing the potential impact of the vaccine. Furthermore pharmaceutical interventions often require consultation with a physician or in more severe cases hospitalization. These requirements reduce the potential impact of pharmaceutical interventions due to the fact that many people do not have access to health care or refuse to be seen by a health care provider. Additionally it is often impossible to satisfy this requirement during a pandemic influenza outbreak because the demand for staff facilities and equipment often exceeds the supply 5 . The limitations of pharmaceutical interventions during pandemic influenza outbreaks highlight the importance of also incorporating nonpharmaceutical interventions in public health campaigns aimed at limiting respiratory infectious disease spread.
Paragraph:  Finally individuals in certain demographic categories may be most receptive to pharmaceutical interventions. Young women from large households expressed the highest level of interests in pharmaceutical interventions and thus may be a potentially successful target of pharmaceutical intervention campaigns. Further study is needed to examine how perceptions and behavior change in response to intervention campaigns.
---------------Next Query---------------------
Query: What has been published about medical care?
Answer:  The concerns of this aspect are on the sociocultural aspects of medical care and hospital as a social institution. There are often options in medical care especially traditional and modern approaches Alubo 2008 . This interaction of plural systems of health care may be complementary competitive or even conflicting. Choice is usually modified by the cultural belief system in the community. Another main issue is the cost of seeking medical care in relation to affordability and quality of services from medical institutions. These are interwoven issues that have constituted focal points in medical care. Another significant issue is the gender context of medical care and hospital. Analysis of gender issues in terms of care providers and receivers is vital in medical care. At times experts analyse the importance of cultural competence in health care delivery and desirability of gender concordance patientpractitioner in health care.
Title:  One of the most prominent mental health reformers in US history in 1812 Rush published his Medical Inquiries and Observations Upon the Diseases of the Mind. 2 He deplored the conditions under which many psychiatric patients were kept and lobbied for more humane care. He promoted the engagement of mental patients in activities such as gardening and washing and he was a strong advocate for the view that alcoholism is a disease. His medical students were so impressed by Rush that they founded Rush Medical College in Chicago now Rush University Medical Center in his honor. It was Rush who persuaded former political opponents John Adams and Thomas Jefferson to rekindle their friendship.
Paragraph:  Clinical guidelines are meant to establish accepted standards of care and may have important economic implications. Medical Letter published by the Consumers Union is a longstanding and useful publication that reviews therapeutic issues of everyday medical practice and the relevant studies. It represents a balanced updated view of medical practice and summaries of current literature reviewed by respected experienced and competent medical authorities. Clinical practice guidelines are produced by hundreds of professional medical and governmental agencies in order to standardize and improve medical care.
---------------Next Query---------------------
Query: What do we know about diagnostics and surveillance?What has been published about information sharing and inter-sectoral collaboration?
Answer:  The aim is to support cooperation and coordinated action of EUMS to improve their capacities at points of entry airports ports groundcrossings in preventing and combating crossborder health threats from the transport sector. The action activities include the following a facilitating EU MS evaluating and monitoring of core capacities at PoE b strengthening inter sectoral and cross sectoral collaboration through a communication network c producing catalogues of tested best practices guidelines and validated action plans d providing capacity buildingtraining on tested best practices guidelines validated action plans e facilitating EU MSs coordinating and executing hygiene inspections on conveyances f combatting all types of health threats focusing on infectious disease and vectors g supporting response to possible future public health emergencies of international concern. In future public health emergencies the action will move from interepidemic mode to emergency mode supporting coherent response as per Decision n10822013EU International Health Regulations and WHO temporary recommendations.
Title:  Globally the information sharing is so important including patients information sharing to trace the suspected cases to protect more people as quickly as possible genome sequences information sharing to prepare the diagnostics as quickly as possible and treatment schemes sharing to rescue more severe cases. The WHO declared the Public Health Emergency of International Concern based on the International Health Regulation 2005 in the early time of the outbreak of COVID19 as it is an extraordinary event to constitute a public health risk to the states through the international spread of disease and to potentially require a coordinate international response 14 . All actions to strengthen surveillance and response systems on infectious diseases need to put emphasis on resources limited countries such as Southeast Asia and African countries 15 .
Paragraph:  One review suggests that there is little reason in theory why cooperation in information sharing could not continue but this depends on financing and investment in collaboration and the UK being given adequacy status under GDPR for sharing of personal information 27 . Many countries aspiring to be in the EU aspire to EU standards in health security management for example Turkey as an accession state 31 .
---------------Next Query---------------------
Query: What has been published about ethical and social science considerations?
Answer:  In January 2006 the Council set up a working party to examine the ethical issues surrounding public health. This was chaired by Lord Krebs and included members with expertise in health economics law philosophy public health policy health promotion and social science. This article summarizes some of the conclusions and recommendations that were published in the report Public health ethical issues 1 in November 2007 and presented to the UK Public Health Association Annual Public Health Forum in April 2008.
Title:  Social scientists have long applied their skills and knowledge in epidemic responses although their roles have become more visible in recent years 38 . By focusing on communities social science humanizes the epidemic response 39  helps to increase understanding of context and may uncover associations between the context or local practices and the risk of transmission. The Social Science in Humanitarian Action Platform 40 has successfully produced rapid reports and briefings on regions in which an epidemic has been identified and the Global Research Collaboration for Infectious Disease Preparedness includes a social science research funders forum to propel research in this area 41  acknowledging that its integration in the preparation and response to outbreaks is often missing or added as an afterthought to solve a problem that could have been forseen. There is still much to learn about how epidemic responders and social scientists can make the most of each others expertise 42 and how data from social science can fit into the wider information architecture of epidemic response.
Paragraph:  Research involving bioethics and social equity helps scientists incorporate ethical principles in the design and conduct studies involving human participants affected by public health emergencies 78 . Such studies are critically important for research examining the effectiveness of candidate vaccines and medicines understanding pathogen transmission and infection in natural settings and testing nonpharmaceutical interventions for disease prevention and mitigation. Although such studies have been conducted for years the U.S. National Academies of Science Engineering and Medicine highlighted research needs for preparedness and response to public health emergencies and associated bioethical considerations 79 . This focus on the bioethics of disaster research has prompted nongovernmental and governmental organizations alike to evaluate challenges and identify solutions to promote ethical practices in research during public health emergencies. Building on this and other social science research can promote the development and implementation of clinical and public health research that takes into account the culture society and benefits to and needs of research participants.
